# TestOfHypotesis
This project was created to analyze data using the pandas and numpy libraries

Miles per Gallon in 1974
During the years car’s manufacturers researched ways to make cars more attractive for their customers. Year by year cars became more attractive, comfortable, and efficient. As customers started to focus more on the comfortability, they have aligned efficiency and comfortability. With automatic cars customers have easier and efficient way to drive, and there is almost no difference between them and manual transmissions. But in the past, these two different types of cars where not that close in comfortability and efficiency. The intention of the project is to show that in 1974 manual shifts had better miles per gallon than an automatic shift.
The data that was used in this experiment is the dataset “mtcars” from the Rstudio database. The data contains 32 observations, with 11 variables. This dataset was extracted from the 1974 Motor Trend US magazine. The potential bias with that data set is. It does not contain all the models of cars in the world. It only contains the most common ones in the United States. 
The data was imported using the pandas library. The intention was to calculate the mean of the column –miles per gallon of the automatic and manual types of transmissions. For that, cars which had automatic and manual transmissions were added to separate arrays –automatic_list and manual_list. Once they are separated –with a pandas library function—all the values from the miles per gallon were added and divided, to acquire their mean. After calculated both means they were compared to show which one was the higher. Proving that the hypothesis was correct. The manual transmission cars from 1974 had better miles per gallon than the automatic transmissions. The manual transmission surpassed the automatic transmission by 7.3 miles per gallon. 
Some roadblocks that came up were. First the way that the data was supposed to be separated. Initially in the proposal the way both arrays were supposed to be separated were by using a for loop. Which in the final version was not the case. To separate them was necessary to use two pandas functions. Such as, set_index and .loc. The set_index was used to set the “am” –which was the transmission column—as the first index of the array. The .loc function was used to show only the two selected columns. Which were “Manual” and “mpg” for the manual list, and “Automatic” and “mpg” for the automatic list. Once it was done both lists only contained these two columns –the only ones we need to make the mean calculation. After dividing both lists, it was time to calculate the mean. There were many tests before I was able to achieve that calculation. To use the formula for the mean. I had to convert both lists to one-dimension array. To do that I have used the numpy reshape function. To accomplish those steps, it took me many hours before I could find a way to make syntax work. By far that was the hardest part. Subsequently the other steps were fairly simple, just implementation of some if statements to check and output the results. If I had more knowledge of the python library one thing that I would add to the code would be an UI. Besides that, I think the code is simple and efficient. 
To conclude, this hypothesis had proven that the transmission that had the best miles per gallon in 1974 was the manual transmission. With the advancement of technology this hypothesis may change as new types of engines were created. Hopefully in the future we may have cars which will be more efficient and environment friendly.

